---
layout: page
title: Bicycle Drawing Test 
tags: []
modified: 2014-08-08T20:53:07.573882-04:00
image:
  feature:
  credit: 
  creditlink: 
---
via [Springer Reference](http://www.springerreference.com/docs/html/chapterdbid/184070.html)


<div container_db_id="1403234" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000000"><div><h2 id="title1">Definition</h2></div></div><div container_db_id="1403235" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000001"><div><p>As the name suggests, the Bicycle Drawing Test requires patients to draw a picture of a bicycle in freehand using a pencil. It can be a useful measure of visual-spatial and visual-motor impairments, and also has been used in the assessment of hemi-neglect syndromes. Typically, the patient is asked to draw a copy of a simple line drawn picture of a bicycle. Many clinicians first ask the patient to draw a bicycle in freehand from their own memory, to assess their constructional ability in the absence of a model.</p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403236" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000002"><div><h2 id="title2">History and Clinical Evidence</h2></div></div><div container_db_id="1403237" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000003"><div><p>The Bicycle Drawing Test is widely associated with Piaget's (Piaget, <cite>1955</cite>) investigations of cognitive development, though similar tests seem to have been employed earlier (Poppelreuter, <cite>1990</cite>; Veiders, <cite>1934</cite>). Neuropsychological investigations of focal unilateral lesions (Hecaen &amp; Assal, <cite>1970</cite>) have demonstrated differences in performance between patients with left- and right-sided posterior brain lesions. Such comparisons have also suggested qualitative differences in the types of errors made among patients with left- and right-sided lesions (Angenent, <cite>1971</cite>). Such findings led to the inclusion of this test as a measure of constructional ability. One study compared the Bicycle Drawing test to the Bender-Gestalt test (Greenberg, Rodriguez &amp; Sesta, <cite>1994</cite>), and found bicycle drawing to be more sensitive to brain dysfunction in children with visual-spatial problems than the Bender-Gestalt test. Interestingly, improvements in bicycle drawing performance have been described in studies of patients with Parkinson's disease, multiple sclerosis, and Tourette's syndrome (Sandyk, <cite>1994</cite>; Sandyk, <cite>1997a</cite>, <cite>1997b</cite>), with reversal of <a href="http://www.springerreference.com/docs/link/2181470.html?s=184070&amp;t=spatial+orientation" class="srlink">spatial orientation</a> in Parkinson's patients when they received electromagnetic pulses to their brain (Sandyk, <cite>1998</cite>). The quality and complexity of the drawing produced by children and adults has also been linked to their <a href="http://www.springerreference.com/docs/link/2090902.html?s=184070&amp;t=intellectual+ability" class="srlink">intellectual ability</a> (Sharma, <cite>1972</cite>).</p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403238" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000004"><div><h2 id="title3">Current Clinical Use</h2></div></div><div container_db_id="1403239" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000005"><div><p>Formal scoring systems exist for the Bicycle Drawing test (Greenberg et al., <cite>1994</cite>) providing a means for deriving quantitative results when using this test. Studies comparing the drawings of amateurs with artists have also shown that observational, experimental, and neuropsychological methods for scoring drawings can provide systemic differences in cognitive skills among individuals (van Sommers, Lange-K&uuml;ttner &amp; Thomas, <cite>1995</cite>). Yet, most clinicians currently use the Bicycle Drawing test in conjunction with other constructional tests, including coping or freehand drawing tasks (e.g., cube, house), and examine results qualitatively for gross spatial distortion, or omissions. Other tests, such as copying of the Rey <a href="http://www.springerreference.com/docs/link/2186754.html?s=184070&amp;t=Complex+Figure" class="srlink">Complex Figure</a> are now more widely used for visual-motor assessment. Yet, the bicycle drawing test is an easy-to-administer task that can yield valuable information about the visual-spatial and constructional abilities of patients. It can also detect hemi-neglect syndrome, as some patients may omit one side of the bicycle. IT can yield information about additional information on <a href="http://www.springerreference.com/docs/link/2197766.html?s=184070&amp;t=intellectual+development" class="srlink">intellectual development</a> when used in the assessment of children. Generally, it should not be used as a stand-alone test, but should rather be used in conjunction with other tests of visual constructional functioning.</p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403240" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000006"><div><h2 id="title4">Cross References</h2></div></div><div container_db_id="1403241" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000007"><div><p><a href="http://www.springerreference.com/index/chapterdoi/10.1007/978-0-387-79948-3_4635">Bender-Gestalt</a></p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403242" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000008"><div><p><a href="http://www.springerreference.com/index/chapterdoi/10.1007/978-0-387-79948-3_1347">Block Design</a></p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403243" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000009"><div><p><a href="http://www.springerreference.com/index/chapterdoi/10.1007/978-0-387-79948-3_1351">Clock Drawing</a></p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403244" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000010"><div><p><a href="http://www.springerreference.com/index/chapterdoi/10.1007/978-0-387-79948-3_1399">Rey Complex Figure Test</a></p></div></div><div container_db_id="1403245" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000011"><div><h2 id="title5">References and Readings</h2></div></div><div container_db_id="1403246" content_type_db_id="1" sort_key="000012"><div>
  <ul class="Citation"> 
   <li> Angenent, H. L. (1971). The development of thought structure among normal and mentally retarded children. <i>Nederlands Tijdschrift voor de Psychologie en haar Grensgebieden, 26</i>(4), 215-232.</li>
   <li> Greenberg, G. D., Rodriguez, N. M., &amp; Sesta, J. J. (1994). Revised scoring, reliability, and validity investigations of Piaget's Bicycle Drawing Test. <i>Assessment, 1</i>(1), 89-101.</li>
   <li> Hecaen, H., &amp; Assal, G. (1970). A comparison of constructive deficits following right and left hemispheric lesions. <i>Neuropsychologia, 8</i>(3), 289-303.</li>
   <li> Piaget, J. (1955). Perceptual and cognitive (or operational) structures in the development of the concept of space in the child. <i>Acta Psychologica, 11</i>, 41-46.</li>
   <li> Poppelreuter, W. (1990). <i>Disturbances of lower and higher visual capacities caused by occipital damage: with special reference to the psychopathological, pedagogical, industrial, and social implications</i>. Oxford/New York: Clarendon Press/Oxford University Press.</li>
   <li> Sandyk, R. (1994). Reversal of a visuoconstructional deficit in Parkinson's disease by application of external magnetic fields: A report of five cases. <i>International Journal of Neuroscience, 75</i>(3-4), 213-228.</li>
   <li> Sandyk, R. (1997a). Progressive cognitive improvement in multiple sclerosis from treatment with electromagnetic fields. <i>International Journal of Neuroscience, 89</i>(1-2), 39-51.</li>
   <li> Sandyk, R. (1997b). Reversal of a visuoconstructional disorder by weak electromagnetic fields in a child with Tourette's syndrome. <i>International Journal of Neuroscience, 90</i>(3-4), 159-167.</li>
   <li> Sandyk, R. (1998). Reversal of the bicycle drawing direction in Parkinson's disease by AC pulsed electromagnetic fields. <i>International Journal of Neuroscience, 95</i>(3-4), 255-269.</li>
   <li> Sharma, T. R. (1972). Measuring intelligence through bicycle drawings. <i>Indian Educational Review, 7</i>(1), 1-30.</li>
   <li> Sommers, P. van (1995). Observational, experimental and neuropsychological studies of drawing. In C. Lange-K&uuml;ttner, &amp; G. V. Thomas (Eds.) <i>Drawing and looking: Theoretical approaches to pictorial representation in children</i> (pp. 44-61). Harvester Wheatsheaf.Hertfordshire:</li>
   <li> Veiders, E. (1934). Analyse der F&auml;higkeit zum r&auml;umlichen Denken. Analysis of the ability for spatial thinking. <i>Psychotechnisches Zeitschrift, 9</i>, 52-60.</li>
  </ul></div></div>

